Additional authentication methods for OpenStack source providers (#404)
kubev2v/forklift-documentation: documentation/modules/ostack-token-auth.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Migration_Toolkit_for_Virtualization/master.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="openstack-token-authentication_{context}"]
= Using token authentication with an {osp} source provider

> You can use token authentication instead of username/password authentication when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

Reviewer: @RichardHoch 
As above - "username and password"

{project-short} supports both of the following types of token authentication:

* Token with user ID
* Token with user name

For each type of token authentication, you need to use data from OpenStack to create a `Secret` manifest.

.Prerequisites

Have an {osp} account.

.Procedure

> . In the dashboard of the {osp} web console, click *Project > API Access*.

Reviewer: @RichardHoch 
As above - *Project* > *API Access*

. Expand *Download OpenStack RC file* and click *OpenStack RC file*.
+
The file that is downloaded, referred to here as `<openstack_rc_file>` includes the following fields used for token authentication:
+
[source, terminal]
----
OS_AUTH_URL
OS_PROJECT_ID
OS_PROJECT_NAME
OS_DOMAIN_NAME
OS_USERNAME
----

. To get the data needed for token authentication, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openstack token issue
----
+

> The output, referred to here as `<openstack_token_output>`, includes the `token` `userID`, and `projectID` you need for authentication using a token with user ID.

Reviewer: @RichardHoch 
Comma after `token`
Also, I think we should not use words in backticks as common nouns, so 'the' should not be here. But up to you.

Author: You're right about the comma, but since the YAML file uses token, etc. as names of labels, I think using backticks here is appropriate, but I see your point.

Reviewer: @RichardHoch 
I didn't mean comma instead of a backtick, but after it, like the one after `userID`.

> . For authentication using a token with user ID, create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:

Reviewer: @RichardHoch 
As above, since the user doesn't need both types of authentication, the `secret` creation parts should be bulleted.
. Create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:
* For authentication using a token with user ID:

* For authentication using a token with user name:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Migration_Toolkit_for_Virtualization/master.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="openstack-token-authentication_{context}"]
= Using token authentication with an {osp} source provider

> You can use token authentication instead of username and password authentication when you create an {osp} source provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use token authentication, instead of username and password authentication, when you create an {osp} source provider.
```

> You can use token authentication instead of username and password authentication when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

Reviewer 3: `migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider` sounds confusing, how about
```suggestion
You can use token authentication instead of username and password authentication when creating an {osp} source provider.
```

Reviewer 3: ah I see - it appears twice and you've changed it here but not on the other place, commented there

{project-short} supports both of the following types of token authentication:

* Token with user ID
* Token with user name

For each type of token authentication, you need to use data from OpenStack to create a `Secret` manifest.

.Prerequisites

Have an {osp} account.

.Procedure

. In the dashboard of the {osp} web console, click *Project > API Access*.
. Expand *Download OpenStack RC file* and click *OpenStack RC file*.
+

> The file that is downloaded, referred to here as `<openstack_rc_file>` includes the following fields used for token authentication:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The file that is downloaded, referred to here as `<openstack_rc_file>`, includes the following fields used for token authentication:
```

Author: Missed that one...

+
[source, terminal]
----
OS_AUTH_URL
OS_PROJECT_ID
OS_PROJECT_NAME
OS_DOMAIN_NAME
OS_USERNAME
----

. To get the data needed for token authentication, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openstack token issue
----
+

> The output, referred to here as `<openstack_token_output>`, includes the `token`, `userID`, and `projectID` you need for authentication using a token with user ID.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The output, referred to here as `<openstack_token_output>`, includes the `token`, `userID`, and `projectID`, you need for authentication using a token with user ID.
```
(I think)

Author: No -- eliminating the that clause that does need to be set off by commas gives us:  "The output includes the x, y, and z you need", which  is correct. But I think adding "that" will make it clearer and help with translation, so thanks for pointing out a potential problem.

. Create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:

** For authentication using a token with user ID:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-tokenid
  namespace: openshift-mtv
  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque
stringData:
  authType: token
  token: <token_from_openstack_token_output>
  projectID: <projectID_from_openstack_token_output>
  userID: <userID_from_openstack_token_output>
  url: <OS_AUTH_URL_from_openstack_rc_file>
EOF
----

** For authentication using a token with user name:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-tokenname
  namespace: openshift-mtv
  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque
stringData:
  authType: token
  token: <token_from_openstack_token_output>
  domainName: <OS_DOMAIN_NAME_from_openstack_rc_file>
  projectName: <OS_PROJECT_NAME_from_openstack_rc_file>
  username: <OS_USERNAME_from_openstack_rc_file>
  url: <OS_AUTH_URL_from_openstack_rc_file>
EOF
----

> . Continue migrating your virtual machine according to the procedure in link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/migration_toolkit_for_virtualization/2.4/html-single/installing_and_using_the_migration_toolkit_for_virtualization/index#migrating-virtual-machines-from-cli[Migrating virtual machines], starting with step 2, "Create a `Provider` manifest for the source provider."

Reviewer 3: the link shouldn't point to 2.4

Reviewer 4: please can we look at an `xref` instead?

Author: I'm adding xrefs -- Can't use xrefs in modules in OpenStack, so there is a workaround for links that adds VersionNumber as a variable in a link, instead of pointing to the last published version. We use that workaround in MTA/MTR. Not sure why it wasn't added here before. I can show you the workaround, @anarnold97, but it's less intuitive than xrefs.

Reviewer 4: Looking at the `master.adoc`, it looks like a stripped down xref with only the id as link is used.

![image](https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-documentation/assets/106804821/eaf5a406-a780-4f71-9580-f122efd358ff)

Please can you try:
```
xref:migrating-virtual-machines-from-cli[Migrating virtual machines]
```

Author: Messed up the xrefs I tried to insert and have left the link in until I talk with Andy.

Author: @anarnold97 Perfect!

= Using token authentication with an {osp} source provider

You can use token authentication instead of username/password authentication when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

{project-short} supports both of the following types of token authentication:

* Token with user ID
* Token with user name

For each type of token authentication, you need to use data from OpenStack to create a `Secret` manifest.

.Prerequisites

Have an {osp} account.

.Procedure

. In the dashboard of the {osp} web console, click *Project > API Access*.
. Expand *Download OpenStack RC file* and click *OpenStack RC file*.
+
The file that is downloaded, referred to here as `<openstack_rc_file>` includes the following fields used for token authentication:
+
[source, terminal]
----
OS_AUTH_URL=http://192.168.100.181:5000
OS_PROJECT_ID=dbed38bf449b495295868afa61a565dc
OS_PROJECT_NAME="forklift"
OS_DOMAIN_NAME="Default"
OS_USERNAME="forklift"
----

. To get the data needed for token authentication, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openstack token issue
----
+
The output, referred to here as `<openstack_token_output>`, includes:
+

> * The `token` `userID`, and `projectID` you need for authentication using a token with user ID (`projectID` is the sme as `OS_PROJECT_ID` in `<openstack_rc_file>` as ).

Reviewer 5: The fields names in the output of `openstack token issue` are `id`, `project_id`, `user_id`, do we need to use the real names in the output?

Author: Removed.

> * The `username` and `projectName` you need for authentication using a token with user name (`username` in the output is the same as `OS_USERNAME`in `<openstack_rc_file>``). You also must use `OS_DOMAIN_NAME` from `<openstack_rc_file>`if you use this method.

Reviewer 5: userName and projectName are not in the out put of `openstack token issue`, they should be retrieved from the openstack_rc_file.

Author: Fixed

> 

Author: @anarnold97 Same question as before, but no need to repeat your answer.

Reviewer 4: @RichardHoch - changed

. For authentication using a token with user ID, create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-tokenid

>   namespace: konveyor-forklift

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  namespace: openshift-mtv
```

Author: fixed.

  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque
stringData:
  authType: token
  token: <token_from_openstack_token_output>

>   projectID: <projectID_from_openstack_token_output>

Reviewer 6: `project_id_....`

Reviewer 4: changed

>   userID: <userID_from_openstack_token_output>

Reviewer 6: `user_id_from...`

Reviewer 4: changed

>   insecureSkipVerify: !!str true

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

  url: <OS_AUTH_URL_from_openstack_rc_file>
EOF
----

. For authentication using a token with user name, create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:
[source,yaml]
+
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-tokenname

>   namespace: konveyor-forklift

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  namespace: openshift-mtv
```

  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque
stringData:
  authType: token
  token: <token_from_openstack_token_output>
  domainName: <OS_DOMAIN_NAME_from_openstack_rc_file>

>   projectName: <OS_PROJECT_NAME=_from_openstack_rc_file>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  projectName: <OS_PROJECT_NAME_from_openstack_rc_file>
```

Author: Fixed.

  username: <OS_USERNAME_from_openstack_rc_file>

>   insecureSkipVerify: !!str true

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
